# Magnetic_Null_Detector
The IDL routine can give a first hand idea about the location and number of three dimensional magnetic nulls for a magnetic field configuration. It is assumed that the magnetic field components are given in Cartesian coordinates. The code given here is written to read magnetic field data from a .sav file.

The baic methodology behind the code is as follows. Since, each of the magnetic field components are given as Bx(nx,ny,nz), By(nx,ny,nz), and Bz(nx,ny,nz), one can estimate the magnetic field strength B = sqrt(Bx^2 + By^2 + Bz^2), which will also be three dimensional given by B(nx,ny,nz). Then the magnetic field strength vector B can be envisaged as three dimensional data cube constituted by nz number of two dimensional layers of size nx and ny in the x and y directions.

By definition, the magnetic nulls are location with zero magnetic field strength. In the numerical sense, the code first determines the location of voxel with minimum magnetic field strength at each layer. The code checks for each of these voxels for the possibility of a null point. Since, there can be multiple nulls in a single layer, the code allows user to specify a number which would determine the number of voxels to be checked in each layer.

To check if a voxel corresponds to magnetic null, the code checks change of sign in each of the components when crossing the null point along x, y, and z directions respectively. If the change occurs along all the three directions, the code registers a count of 3 for that voxel and flags the voxel as a null point location. Later, the indices of that voxel are stored in a data file in voxel coordinates as well as normalized coordinates.
